In the Short Story "The prince of migrating" by Gray Younge, published in The Guardian on the 24th of March 2015, Gray Younge talks about his opinion and personal experience with immigration. His story begins with him at the 70th birthday party of one of his friends. He met a distant acquaintance with whom he talked and eventually got upset because he realized that the people there knew him in a way nobody else did, because they knew him before his mother died. The next day he returned to his friends in New York, who knew him very roughly but knew his mother died and had a brother. In the end, he mentioned that he would be moving to Chicago. Then he talks about his thoughts on migration. He thinks that migrating always leaves a part of your past behind and involves loss, that's also why he thinks he cannot explain his childhood anymore because nobody had been there anymore. For example, what many Immigrants lose when they are forced to migrate, in contrast to him who had free choice, are their partner, kids, or home. He then proceeded to talk about when his family migrated to England in the early sixties because of economic reasons. Now he thinks that his sense of loss is mostly Cultural. He ends his story with a conclusion in which he states that migration is a good thing when it's voluntary but that migration also has a price.


When he writes that migration always comes at a price, he refers to the fact that you always leave something behind and lose it even if it's a voluntary migration. In his story, he gave an example of his culture. He thinks he lost his culture now that he lives in a new country, but he also gave examples of other things you could lose when you migrate, especially if it's non-voluntary, like your wife, kids, or your home.


In the Story "The Escape," Samir realizes that England is more his home than Pakistan and therefore refers to England as his home, not Pakistan. This overlaps with Gary Younge's views as he thinks you lose something when you migrate, and Samir nearly lost his original home. However, he also gained a new home with a new family and as far as the story goes also kept some cultural aspect like his religion which he could also practice there.